README.md, before:

# Prompt Unifier

[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/prompt-unifier.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/prompt-unifier/) [![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/prompt-unifier.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/prompt-unifier/) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![Code Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-95%25-brightgreen)](./htmlcov) [![CI/CD Status](https://img.shields.io/gitlab/pipeline-status/waewoo/prompt-unifier)](https://gitlab.com/waewoo/prompt-unifier/-/pipelines)

A Python CLI tool for managing AI prompt templates and coding rules with YAML frontmatter, enabling version control, validation, and deployment workflows.

---

## What is Prompt Unifier?

Managing AI prompts across a team can be chaotic, with templates scattered across local files, wikis, and chat threads. This leads to a lack of version control, standardization, and a single source of truth.

**Prompt Unifier** solves this by providing a centralized, Git-based workflow to **sync**, **validate**, and **deploy** prompt and rule files to your favorite AI coding assistants.

## Features

- ✅ **Git-Based Versioning**: Sync prompts from one or multiple Git repositories.
- ✅ **Centralized Management**: Use a single source of truth for all your prompts and rules.
- ✅ **Validation**: Catch errors in your prompt files before deploying them.
- ✅ **Easy Deployment**: A single command to deploy prompts to supported handlers (like **Continue**).
- ✅ **Structured Organization**: Recursively discovers files, preserving your subdirectory structure.
- ✅ **Multi-Repository Support**: Combine company-wide prompts with team-specific ones seamlessly.

## Current Handler Support

Currently, **Prompt Unifier** primarily supports the **Continue** AI assistant as a handler. We plan to integrate with more AI tools and platforms in the future to provide a wider range of deployment options.

## How it Works: The Workflow

Prompt Unifier streamlines the management and deployment of your AI prompts and rules through a clear, three-stage workflow:

```text
┌───────────────────────────┐         ┌───────────────────────┐         ┌────────────────────────────┐
│   Remote Git Repositories │         │   Local Storage       │         │   AI Tool Configuration    │
│  (e.g., GitHub, GitLab)   ├─────────► (~/.prompt-unifier/storage) ├───► (e.g., ~/.continue/prompts)│
│    - Global Prompts       │  (Sync) │    - Merged Prompts   │(Deploy) │    - Prompts & Rules       │
│    - Team Rules           │         │    - Merged Rules     │         │      for Active Use        │
└───────────────────────────┘         └───────────────────────┘         └────────────────────────────┘
         ▲                                     ▲
         │                                     │
         └─────────────────────────────────────┘
                 (Version Control & Source of Truth)
```

1.  **Sync from Remote Repositories**: You define one or more Git repositories containing your structured prompts and rules. **Prompt Unifier** fetches these, resolving conflicts with a "last-wins" strategy, and stores them in a centralized local directory. This ensures all your content is version-controlled and readily available.
2.  **Local Storage**: All synced prompts and rules reside in a dedicated local storage area (e.g., `~/.prompt-unifier/storage`). This acts as your single source of truth, where content is validated and prepared for deployment.
3.  **Deploy to AI Tool Configuration**: With a simple command, the tool copies the relevant prompts and rules from your local storage to the specific configuration directories of your AI assistant (e.g., `~/.continue/prompts` for the **Continue** handler). This makes your standardized and validated content immediately available for use within your AI development environment.

## Installation

You can install `prompt-unifier` directly from PyPI using `pip`:

```bash
pip install prompt-unifier
```

**Prerequisites:**
- Python 3.11+
- Git 2.x+
- Poetry (for development)

## Quick Start

Get started in 60 seconds:

```bash
# 1. Initialize prompt-unifier in your project
# This creates a .prompt-unifier/config.yaml file.
prompt-unifier init

# 2. Sync prompts from a Git repository
# This clones the repo into a centralized local storage.
prompt-unifier sync --repo https://github.com/prompt-unifier/example-prompts.git

# 3. Deploy prompts to your AI assistant (e.g., Continue)
# This copies the prompts to the .continue/ folder in your project.
prompt-unifier deploy

# 4. Check the status of your synced repositories
prompt-unifier status
```

## Core Concepts

The tool manages two types of files, both using **YAML frontmatter**.

### Prompts

AI prompt templates, typically stored in a `prompts/` directory within your Git repository.

**Example: `prompts/backend/api-design.md`**
```markdown
---
title: api-design-review
description: Reviews an API design for best practices.
version: 1.1.0
tags: [python, api, backend]
---
# API Design Review

You are an expert API designer. Please review the following API design...
```

### Rules

Coding standards and best practices, typically stored in a `rules/` directory.

**Example: `rules/testing/pytest-best-practices.md`**
```markdown
---
title: pytest-best-practices
description: Best practices for writing tests with pytest.
category: standards
tags: [python, pytest]
version: 1.0.0
---
# Pytest Best Practices

- Use fixtures for setup and teardown.
- Keep tests small and focused.
```

## Commands

The CLI provides several commands to manage your prompts.

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier init</code> - Initialize configuration</summary>
<br>
Creates a <code>.prompt-unifier/config.yaml</code> file in your current directory. This file tracks which repositories you sync from and your deployment settings. It also sets up a local storage directory (default: <code>~/.prompt-unifier/storage/</code>) with <code>prompts/</code>, <code>rules/</code> subdirectories and a <code>.gitignore</code> file.

**Options:**
-   <code>--storage-path TEXT</code>: Specify a custom storage directory path instead of the default.
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier sync</code> - Synchronize from Git</summary>
<br>
Clones or pulls prompts from one or more Git repositories into a centralized local storage path. You can specify repositories via the command line or in the <code>config.yaml</code> file. The configuration is updated with metadata about the synced repositories.

**Options:**
-   <code>--repo TEXT</code>: Git repository URL (can be specified multiple times).
-   <code>--storage-path TEXT</code>: Override the default storage path for this sync.

**Multi-Repository Sync with Last-Wins Strategy:**
When multiple repositories are synced, files with identical paths will be overwritten by content from later repositories in the sync order.

```bash
prompt-unifier sync \
  --repo https://github.com/company/global-prompts.git \
  --repo https://github.com/team/team-prompts.git \
  --storage-path /custom/path/storage
```
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier status</code> - Check sync status</summary>
<br>
Displays the synchronization status, including when each repository was last synced and whether new commits are available on the remote. It also checks the deployment status of prompts and rules against configured handlers.
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier validate</code> - Validate files</summary>
<br>
Checks prompt and rule files for correct YAML frontmatter, required fields, and valid syntax. You can validate the central storage or a local directory of files.

**Options:**
-   <code>[DIRECTORY]</code>: Optional. Directory to validate (defaults to synchronized storage).
-   <code>--json</code>: Output validation results in JSON format.
-   <code>--verbose</code>, <code>-v</code>: Show verbose output with detailed validation issues.
-   <code>--type TEXT</code>, <code>-t TEXT</code>: Specify content type to validate: 'all', 'prompts', or 'rules' [default: 'all'].

```bash
# Validate the central storage
prompt-unifier validate

# Validate a local directory
prompt-unifier validate ./my-prompts/
```
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier list</code> - List content</summary>
<br>
Displays a table of all available prompts and rules in your centralized storage. You can filter and sort the content using various options.

**Options:**
-   <code>--verbose</code>, <code>-v</code>: Show full content preview.
-   <code>--tool</code>, <code>-t TEXT</code>: Filter content by target tool handler.
-   <code>--tag TEXT</code>: Filter content by a specific tag.
-   <code>--sort</code>, <code>-s TEXT</code>: Sort content by 'name' (default) or 'date'.

```bash
# List all content
prompt-unifier list

# List prompts tagged "python" with verbose output
prompt-unifier list --tag python --verbose

# List content sorted by date
prompt-unifier list --sort date
```
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier deploy</code> - Deploy to handlers</summary>
<br>
Copies the synchronized prompts and rules to the configuration directories of your AI coding assistants.

- **Default Handler:** `continue`
- **Default Destination:** `./.continue/` (in your current project)
- **Base Path Override:** Can be overridden via CLI <code>--base-path</code> or handler-specific configuration in <code>config.yaml</code>.

**Deployment Options:**
-   <code>--name TEXT</code>: Deploy only a specific prompt or rule by name.
-   <code>--tags TEXT</code>: Filter content to deploy by tags (comma-separated).
-   <code>--handlers TEXT</code>: Specify target handlers for deployment (comma-separated). Currently, only 'continue' is supported.
-   <code>--base-path PATH</code>: Custom base path for handler deployment (overrides config.yaml).
-   <code>--clean</code>: Remove orphaned prompts/rules in destination that are not in your source (creates backups before removal).
-   <code>--dry-run</code>: Preview deployment without executing any file operations.

After deployment, a detailed verification report is provided, outlining the status of each deployed item.

```bash
# Deploy only prompts tagged "python", with cleanup, and preview changes
prompt-unifier deploy --tags python --clean --dry-run

# Deploy to a specific handler base path
prompt-unifier deploy --base-path /custom/handler/path
```
</details>

## Development Setup

If you want to contribute to the development of `prompt-unifier`:

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://gitlab.com/waewoo/prompt-unifier.git
    cd prompt-unifier
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies using Poetry:**
    ```bash
    poetry install
    ```

3.  **Install pre-commit hooks:**
    This will run linters and formatters automatically before each commit.
    ```bash
    poetry run pre-commit install
    ```

### Running Checks

This project uses a `Makefile` for common development tasks:

-   `make install`: Install dependencies.
-   `make test`: Run the test suite.
-   `make lint`: Check for linting issues with Ruff.
-   `make format`: Format code with Ruff.
-   `make typecheck`: Run static type analysis with mypy.
-   `make check`: Run all checks (lint, types, tests).

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please read our [**Contributing Guide (CONTRIBUTING.md)**](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details on how to submit pull requests, report issues, and more.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

feat(logging): implement centralized logging system with global verbose flag
add centralized logging configuration using Python's built-in logging module with Rich integration for colored terminal output. implement global --verbose/-v flag with multiple verbosity levels (-v for INFO, -vv for DEBUG) and --log-file option for persistent debugging. migrate existing local --verbose flags in validate and list commands to use global logging system. add comprehensive logging to key services including GitService, ValidationService, and all CLI commands with contextual information like file paths, counts, and operation status.

BREAKING CHANGE: -v flag now controls verbosity level instead of showing version. use -V or --version for version information.

README.md, after:

# Prompt Unifier

[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/prompt-unifier.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/prompt-unifier/) [![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/prompt-unifier.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/prompt-unifier/) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![Code Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-95%25-brightgreen)](./htmlcov) [![CI/CD Status](https://img.shields.io/gitlab/pipeline-status/waewoo/prompt-unifier)](https://gitlab.com/waewoo/prompt-unifier/-/pipelines)

A Python CLI tool for managing AI prompt templates and coding rules with YAML frontmatter, enabling version control, validation, and deployment workflows.

---

## What is Prompt Unifier?

Managing AI prompts across a team can be chaotic, with templates scattered across local files, wikis, and chat threads. This leads to a lack of version control, standardization, and a single source of truth.

**Prompt Unifier** solves this by providing a centralized, Git-based workflow to **sync**, **validate**, and **deploy** prompt and rule files to your favorite AI coding assistants.

## Features

- ✅ **Git-Based Versioning**: Sync prompts from one or multiple Git repositories.
- ✅ **Centralized Management**: Use a single source of truth for all your prompts and rules.
- ✅ **Validation**: Catch errors in your prompt files before deploying them.
- ✅ **Easy Deployment**: A single command to deploy prompts to supported handlers (like **Continue**).
- ✅ **Structured Organization**: Recursively discovers files, preserving your subdirectory structure.
- ✅ **Multi-Repository Support**: Combine company-wide prompts with team-specific ones seamlessly.
- ✅ **Centralized Logging**: Global verbose mode (`-v`, `-vv`) and file logging (`--log-file`) for debugging.

## Current Handler Support

Currently, **Prompt Unifier** primarily supports the **Continue** AI assistant as a handler. We plan to integrate with more AI tools and platforms in the future to provide a wider range of deployment options.

## How it Works: The Workflow

Prompt Unifier streamlines the management and deployment of your AI prompts and rules through a clear, three-stage workflow:

```text
┌───────────────────────────┐         ┌───────────────────────┐         ┌────────────────────────────┐
│   Remote Git Repositories │         │   Local Storage       │         │   AI Tool Configuration    │
│  (e.g., GitHub, GitLab)   ├─────────► (~/.prompt-unifier/storage) ├───► (e.g., ~/.continue/prompts)│
│    - Global Prompts       │  (Sync) │    - Merged Prompts   │(Deploy) │    - Prompts & Rules       │
│    - Team Rules           │         │    - Merged Rules     │         │      for Active Use        │
└───────────────────────────┘         └───────────────────────┘         └────────────────────────────┘
         ▲                                     ▲
         │                                     │
         └─────────────────────────────────────┘
                 (Version Control & Source of Truth)
```

1.  **Sync from Remote Repositories**: You define one or more Git repositories containing your structured prompts and rules. **Prompt Unifier** fetches these, resolving conflicts with a "last-wins" strategy, and stores them in a centralized local directory. This ensures all your content is version-controlled and readily available.
2.  **Local Storage**: All synced prompts and rules reside in a dedicated local storage area (e.g., `~/.prompt-unifier/storage`). This acts as your single source of truth, where content is validated and prepared for deployment.
3.  **Deploy to AI Tool Configuration**: With a simple command, the tool copies the relevant prompts and rules from your local storage to the specific configuration directories of your AI assistant (e.g., `~/.continue/prompts` for the **Continue** handler). This makes your standardized and validated content immediately available for use within your AI development environment.

## Installation

You can install `prompt-unifier` directly from PyPI using `pip`:

```bash
pip install prompt-unifier
```

**Prerequisites:**
- Python 3.11+
- Git 2.x+
- Poetry (for development)

## Quick Start

Get started in 60 seconds:

```bash
# 1. Initialize prompt-unifier in your project
# This creates a .prompt-unifier/config.yaml file.
prompt-unifier init

# 2. Sync prompts from a Git repository
# This clones the repo into a centralized local storage.
prompt-unifier sync --repo https://github.com/prompt-unifier/example-prompts.git

# 3. Deploy prompts to your AI assistant (e.g., Continue)
# This copies the prompts to the .continue/ folder in your project.
prompt-unifier deploy

# 4. Check the status of your synced repositories
prompt-unifier status
```

## Core Concepts

The tool manages two types of files, both using **YAML frontmatter**.

### Prompts

AI prompt templates, typically stored in a `prompts/` directory within your Git repository.

**Example: `prompts/backend/api-design.md`**
```markdown
---
title: api-design-review
description: Reviews an API design for best practices.
version: 1.1.0
tags: [python, api, backend]
---
# API Design Review

You are an expert API designer. Please review the following API design...
```

### Rules

Coding standards and best practices, typically stored in a `rules/` directory.

**Example: `rules/testing/pytest-best-practices.md`**
```markdown
---
title: pytest-best-practices
description: Best practices for writing tests with pytest.
category: standards
tags: [python, pytest]
version: 1.0.0
---
# Pytest Best Practices

- Use fixtures for setup and teardown.
- Keep tests small and focused.
```

## Commands

The CLI provides several commands to manage your prompts.

### Global Options

These options can be used with any command:

-   <code>--verbose</code>, <code>-v</code>: Increase verbosity level. Use `-v` for INFO, `-vv` for DEBUG.
-   <code>--log-file TEXT</code>: Write logs to a file for persistent debugging.
-   <code>--version</code>, <code>-V</code>: Show version and exit.
-   <code>--help</code>: Show help message and exit.

```bash
# Run any command with verbose output
prompt-unifier -v validate

# Debug mode with file logging
prompt-unifier -vv --log-file debug.log sync --repo https://github.com/example/prompts.git
```

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier init</code> - Initialize configuration</summary>
<br>
Creates a <code>.prompt-unifier/config.yaml</code> file in your current directory. This file tracks which repositories you sync from and your deployment settings. It also sets up a local storage directory (default: <code>~/.prompt-unifier/storage/</code>) with <code>prompts/</code>, <code>rules/</code> subdirectories and a <code>.gitignore</code> file.

**Options:**
-   <code>--storage-path TEXT</code>: Specify a custom storage directory path instead of the default.
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier sync</code> - Synchronize from Git</summary>
<br>
Clones or pulls prompts from one or more Git repositories into a centralized local storage path. You can specify repositories via the command line or in the <code>config.yaml</code> file. The configuration is updated with metadata about the synced repositories.

**Options:**
-   <code>--repo TEXT</code>: Git repository URL (can be specified multiple times).
-   <code>--storage-path TEXT</code>: Override the default storage path for this sync.

**Multi-Repository Sync with Last-Wins Strategy:**
When multiple repositories are synced, files with identical paths will be overwritten by content from later repositories in the sync order.

```bash
prompt-unifier sync \
  --repo https://github.com/company/global-prompts.git \
  --repo https://github.com/team/team-prompts.git \
  --storage-path /custom/path/storage
```
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier status</code> - Check sync status</summary>
<br>
Displays the synchronization status, including when each repository was last synced and whether new commits are available on the remote. It also checks the deployment status of prompts and rules against configured handlers.
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier validate</code> - Validate files</summary>
<br>
Checks prompt and rule files for correct YAML frontmatter, required fields, and valid syntax. You can validate the central storage or a local directory of files.

**Options:**
-   <code>[DIRECTORY]</code>: Optional. Directory to validate (defaults to synchronized storage).
-   <code>--json</code>: Output validation results in JSON format.
-   <code>--type TEXT</code>, <code>-t TEXT</code>: Specify content type to validate: 'all', 'prompts', or 'rules' [default: 'all'].

Use the global <code>-v</code> flag for verbose output (e.g., <code>prompt-unifier -v validate</code>).

```bash
# Validate the central storage
prompt-unifier validate

# Validate a local directory
prompt-unifier validate ./my-prompts/
```
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier list</code> - List content</summary>
<br>
Displays a table of all available prompts and rules in your centralized storage. You can filter and sort the content using various options.

**Options:**
-   <code>--tool</code>, <code>-t TEXT</code>: Filter content by target tool handler.
-   <code>--tag TEXT</code>: Filter content by a specific tag.
-   <code>--sort</code>, <code>-s TEXT</code>: Sort content by 'name' (default) or 'date'.

Use the global <code>-v</code> flag for verbose output (e.g., <code>prompt-unifier -v list</code>).

```bash
# List all content
prompt-unifier list

# List prompts tagged "python" with verbose output
prompt-unifier -v list --tag python

# List content sorted by date
prompt-unifier list --sort date
```
</details>

<details><summary><code>prompt-unifier deploy</code> - Deploy to handlers</summary>
<br>
Copies the synchronized prompts and rules to the configuration directories of your AI coding assistants.

- **Default Handler:** `continue`
- **Default Destination:** `./.continue/` (in your current project)
- **Base Path Override:** Can be overridden via CLI <code>--base-path</code> or handler-specific configuration in <code>config.yaml</code>.

**Deployment Options:**
-   <code>--name TEXT</code>: Deploy only a specific prompt or rule by name.
-   <code>--tags TEXT</code>: Filter content to deploy by tags (comma-separated).
-   <code>--handlers TEXT</code>: Specify target handlers for deployment (comma-separated). Currently, only 'continue' is supported.
-   <code>--base-path PATH</code>: Custom base path for handler deployment (overrides config.yaml).
-   <code>--clean</code>: Remove orphaned prompts/rules in destination that are not in your source (creates backups before removal).
-   <code>--dry-run</code>: Preview deployment without executing any file operations.

After deployment, a detailed verification report is provided, outlining the status of each deployed item.

```bash
# Deploy only prompts tagged "python", with cleanup, and preview changes
prompt-unifier deploy --tags python --clean --dry-run

# Deploy to a specific handler base path
prompt-unifier deploy --base-path /custom/handler/path
```
</details>

## Development Setup

If you want to contribute to the development of `prompt-unifier`:

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://gitlab.com/waewoo/prompt-unifier.git
    cd prompt-unifier
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies using Poetry:**
    ```bash
    poetry install
    ```

3.  **Install pre-commit hooks:**
    This will run linters and formatters automatically before each commit.
    ```bash
    poetry run pre-commit install
    ```

### Running Checks

This project uses a `Makefile` for common development tasks:

-   `make install`: Install dependencies.
-   `make test`: Run the test suite.
-   `make lint`: Check for linting issues with Ruff.
-   `make format`: Format code with Ruff.
-   `make typecheck`: Run static type analysis with mypy.
-   `make check`: Run all checks (lint, types, tests).

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please read our [**Contributing Guide (CONTRIBUTING.md)**](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details on how to submit pull requests, report issues, and more.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
