agent-os/specs/2025-11-15-tool-handler-implementation-continue/spec.md, before:

# Specification: Tool Handler Implementation: Continue

## Goal
The goal of this specification is to implement a `ContinueToolHandler` that allows users to deploy prompts and rules from `prompt-manager` to the "Continue" AI assistant. This handler will be responsible for converting and copying files to the appropriate directories, as well as handling backups and deployment verification.

## User Stories
- As a developer using "Continue", I want to be able to deploy my `prompt-manager` prompts and rules to "Continue" so that I can use them in my AI-assisted development workflow.
- As a tech lead, I want to be able to standardize the prompts and rules used by my team in "Continue" by managing them through `prompt-manager`.

## Specific Requirements

**`ContinueToolHandler` Implementation**
- Create a `ContinueToolHandler` class in `src/prompt_manager/handlers/continue_handler.py`.
- The class must conform to the `ToolHandler` protocol.
- The handler should be registered in the `ToolHandlerRegistry`.

**Configuration for Deployment**
- The `.prompt-manager/config.yaml` must be extended to support deployment configuration:
  - `deploy_tags`: List of strings (e.g., ["python", "review"]) to filter prompts and rules by their `tags` field in frontmatter. If empty or absent, deploy all items.
  - `target_handlers`: List of strings (e.g., ["continue", "cursor"]) specifying the handlers to deploy to. If empty or absent, deploy to all registered handlers.
- Example extended config.yaml:
  ```yaml
  repo_url: https://example.com/prompts.git
  last_sync_timestamp: "2025-11-15T10:00:00Z"
  last_sync_commit: "abc123"
  storage_path: "~/.prompt-manager/storage"
  deploy_tags: ["python", "api"]
  target_handlers: ["continue", "cursor"]
  ```
- The deploy command reads this config to determine what to deploy and where.

**Deploy Command Behavior**
- The `deploy` command automatically deploys all prompts and rules matching the `deploy_tags` from config (scanning storage/prompts/ and storage/rules/).
- If no tags specified in config, deploys all items.
- Deploys to handlers listed in `target_handlers` from config; if none, to all registered.
- CLI options can override config (e.g., --tags "override-tag" to filter differently, --handlers "override-handler").
- For each matching item, process frontmatter (map title->name, add invokable: true for prompts), backup existing files, copy to handler directories, verify deployment.

**Prompt Deployment**
- Scan storage/prompts/ for .md files matching deploy_tags (via tags field in frontmatter).
- For each matching prompt, map internal fields to Continue format: title -> name, ensure description and invokable: true.
- Copy processed .md to `~/.continue/prompts/<name>.md`.

**Rule Deployment**
- Scan storage/rules/ for .md files matching deploy_tags.
- For each matching rule, map title -> name, applies_to -> globs, set alwaysApply: false (default).
- Copy processed .md to `~/.continue/rules/<name>.md`.

**Backup Mechanism**
- Before deploying each item, back up existing file in target directory with .bak extension.

**Deployment Verification**
- For each deployed item, verify file exists in target location and frontmatter/content is correct (e.g., name, description, invokable for prompts; name, globs for rules).

**File Formats**
- **Input (prompt-manager storage):** MD with YAML frontmatter using title, description, tags, etc.
- **Output (Continue):** MD with YAML frontmatter using name (from title), description, invokable: true for prompts; name (from title), globs (from applies_to), description, alwaysApply: false for rules.


## Visual Design
No visual assets provided.

## Existing Code to Leverage

**`src/prompt_manager/git/service.py`**
- The `GitService` class provides a good example of how to structure a service class that interacts with the file system.
- The `ContinueToolHandler` can follow a similar pattern for reading, writing, and copying files.

## Out of Scope
- Implementation of the "Kilo Code" tool handler.
- Any other tool handler besides "Continue".
- UI for managing tool handlers.

Commit message:

feat(handlers): Add configurable base paths for tool handlers
This commit introduces a major feature that allows users to configure custom deployment base paths for tool handlers, providing greater flexibility for different project structures and deployment environments.

Key Changes:

- Configuration:
  - Users can now specify a `base_path` for each tool handler in the `.prompt-manager/config.yaml` file under the `handlers` section.
  - This allows deploying prompts and rules to locations other than the default project directory.

- CLI:
  - A `--base-path` option has been added to the `deploy` command, which overrides any configured path for a single deployment.

- Path Expansion:
  - The `base_path` configuration supports environment variable expansion, including `$HOME`, `$PWD`, and `$USER`. This allows for dynamic and user-specific paths.

- Tool Handler Protocol:
  - The `ToolHandler` protocol has been updated to support the new functionality. The `deploy` method now accepts an optional `source_filename`, and a new `clean_orphaned_files` method has been added for future use.

- Continue Handler:
  - The `ContinueToolHandler` has been refactored to honor the `base_path` from configuration or the CLI. It now correctly resolves the target deployment directory.

- Testing:
  - Comprehensive unit, integration, and end-to-end tests have been added to validate the new functionality, including multi-project setups, CLI overrides, and environment variable expansion.

This feature enhances the tool's adaptability to various development workflows and project layouts. It also lays the groundwork for more advanced deployment strategies.

agent-os/specs/2025-11-15-tool-handler-implementation-continue/spec.md, after:

# Specification: Tool Handler Implementation: Continue

## Goal
The goal of this specification is to implement a `ContinueToolHandler` that allows users to deploy prompts and rules from `prompt-manager` to the "Continue" AI assistant. This handler will be responsible for converting and copying files to the appropriate directories, as well as handling backups and deployment verification.

## User Stories
- As a developer using "Continue", I want to be able to deploy my `prompt-manager` prompts and rules to "Continue" so that I can use them in my AI-assisted development workflow.
- As a tech lead, I want to be able to standardize the prompts and rules used by my team in "Continue" by managing them through `prompt-manager`.

## Specific Requirements

**`ContinueToolHandler` Implementation**
- Create a `ContinueToolHandler` class in `src/prompt_manager/handlers/continue_handler.py`.
- The class must conform to the `ToolHandler` protocol.
- The handler should be registered in the `ToolHandlerRegistry`.

**Configuration for Deployment**
- The `.prompt-manager/config.yaml` must be extended to support deployment configuration:
  - `deploy_tags`: List of strings (e.g., ["python", "review"]) to filter prompts and rules by their `tags` field in frontmatter. If empty or absent, deploy all items.
  - `target_handlers`: List of strings (e.g., ["continue", "cursor"]) specifying the handlers to deploy to. If empty or absent, deploy to all registered handlers.
- Example extended config.yaml:
  ```yaml
  repo_url: https://example.com/prompts.git
  last_sync_timestamp: "2025-11-15T10:00:00Z"
  last_sync_commit: "abc123"
  storage_path: "~/.prompt-manager/storage"
  deploy_tags: ["python", "api"]
  target_handlers: ["continue", "cursor"]
  ```
- The deploy command reads this config to determine what to deploy and where.

**Deploy Command Behavior**
- The `deploy` command automatically deploys all prompts and rules matching the `deploy_tags` from config (scanning storage/prompts/ and storage/rules/).
- If no tags specified in config, deploys all items.
- Deploys to handlers listed in `target_handlers` from config; if none, to all registered.
- CLI options can override config (e.g., --tags "override-tag" to filter differently, --handlers "override-handler").
- For each matching item, process frontmatter (map title->name, add invokable: true for prompts), backup existing files, copy to handler directories, verify deployment.

**Prompt Deployment**
- Scan storage/prompts/ for .md files matching deploy_tags (via tags field in frontmatter).
- For each matching prompt, map internal fields to Continue format: title -> name, ensure description and invokable: true.
- Copy processed .md to `~/.continue/prompts/<original-filename>.md`, preserving the original filename from the source repository.
- **Filename Preservation:** The original filename is preserved during deployment (e.g., `Python Code Refactoring Expert.md` remains as `Python Code Refactoring Expert.md` in the destination, not converted to `Python-Code-Refactoring-Expert.md` or using the title field).

**Rule Deployment**
- Scan storage/rules/ for .md files matching deploy_tags.
- For each matching rule, map title -> name, applies_to -> globs, set alwaysApply: false (default).
- Copy processed .md to `~/.continue/rules/<original-filename>.md`, preserving the original filename from the source repository.
- **Filename Preservation:** Same as prompts - original filenames are preserved (e.g., `backend-python-packages.md` stays as `backend-python-packages.md`).

**Backup Mechanism**
- Before deploying each item, back up existing file in target directory with .bak extension.

**Deployment Verification**
- For each deployed item, verify file exists in target location and frontmatter/content is correct (e.g., name, description, invokable for prompts; name, globs for rules).

**File Formats**
- **Input (prompt-manager storage):** MD with YAML frontmatter using title, description, tags, etc. Filenames can contain spaces and special characters (e.g., `Python Code Refactoring Expert.md`, `backend-python-packages.md`).
- **Output (Continue):** MD with YAML frontmatter using name (from title), description, invokable: true for prompts; name (from title), globs (from applies_to), description, alwaysApply: false for rules. **Filenames are preserved from source** to maintain consistency and readability.


## Visual Design
No visual assets provided.

## Existing Code to Leverage

**`src/prompt_manager/git/service.py`**
- The `GitService` class provides a good example of how to structure a service class that interacts with the file system.
- The `ContinueToolHandler` can follow a similar pattern for reading, writing, and copying files.

**Orphaned Files Cleanup (--clean Option)**
- The `deploy` command supports a `--clean` flag to remove orphaned files.
- When `--clean` is used:
  - After deploying all matching prompts/rules, the handler scans destination directories (e.g., `~/.continue/prompts/` and `~/.continue/rules/`)
  - Files in the destination that were NOT just deployed (orphaned files) are permanently removed
  - Any existing `.bak` backup files are also removed during cleanup
  - This ensures the destination only contains files from the current source repository
- Example: `prompt-manager deploy --clean`
- The number of cleaned files is reported in the deployment summary
- **Note:** Files are deleted permanently without creating backups - use with caution

**YAML Frontmatter Formatting**
- Generated YAML frontmatter must not contain extra blank lines before the closing `---` delimiter
- Implementation uses `.rstrip()` on `yaml.safe_dump()` output to remove trailing newlines
- This ensures clean, consistent YAML formatting in deployed files

## Out of Scope
- Implementation of the "Kilo Code" tool handler.
- Any other tool handler besides "Continue".
- UI for managing tool handlers.
